# Twitter Clone - Scrimba Module 5: Essential Javascript Concepts 

## About The Project

The project uses modular JavaScript to render feed dynamically in the form of messages and replies in the style of a typical social media platform such as Twitter. The basic functionality was completed alongside the Scrimba tutorial. The tweetsDataArray and the CSS for the basic functionality had been provided by Scrimba. This functionality included rendering the data, allowing the user (@Scrimba) to compose a 'tweet' and add it to the feed, generating uuids using the uuidjs package, rendering icons using the font-awesome CDN and using these icons as buttons for incrementing and decrementing likes and retweets, and for opening and closing the replies associated with each message.

The following stretch goals were suggested and were completed by myself without assistance:

- Add the ability to reply to a specific tweet: a font-awesome reply icon and reply box was added to the JavaScript tweet boilerplate. The box opens by clicking the reply icon. The reply is added to the data by means of the handleTweetReplyBtnClick() function.
- Save tweets, likes and retweets to local storage: A local storage item "newTweetsData" is set (which consists of the current state of tweetsData) at the end of the render() function. This item is retrieved and conditionally assigned to the tweetsData variable near the beginning of the file. 
- Allow a user to delete a tweet: a delete icon (dustbin) was imported from font-awesome. The icon was added to each item in the feed, but uses the .hidden class and JavaScript logic to render only when the item is sent by the current user (@Scrimba) AND (in the case of messages) does not currently have any replies.
- Your own idea: The basic functionality causes the replies visibility to default to hidden on each re-render. I felt that this did not result in an ideal user experience because render is called when clicking a number of elements. For example if the user were to click on the 'likes' icon with a replies list in a visible state the click would also have the unwanted effect of hiding the replies list. So local storage item "isHiddenArray" was set to store an array of boolean values representing the presence or absence of the .hidden class. The item is retrieved and conditionally assigned to the visibilityClassArray variable towards the beginning of the getFeedHtml() function, and informs the replies container element class list using JavaScript logic. local storage was used in a similar way to maintain the visibility status of the reply box once opened, to prevent the user from losing a part-composed message before sending it if they unintentionally invoke the render function by clicking on one of the icons. This was achieved by dynamically setting and retrieving the "replyBoxVisibility-${tweetId}" local storage item. I feel this has improved on the overall user experience.

Frances Hitchock, 25 October 2022
